'''BSON''' {{IPAc-en|ˈ|b|iː|s|ɒ|n}} is a [[computer]] data interchange format used mainly as a data storage and network transfer format in the [[MongoDB]] database. It is a binary form for representing simple [[data structure]]s and [[associative array]]s (called objects or documents in MongoDB).  The name "BSON" is based on the term [[JSON]] and stands for "Binary JSON".<ref  name="bsonspec">[http://bsonspec.org BSON Specification]</ref>

==Data types and syntax==
BSON documents (objects) consist of an ordered list of ''elements''.  Each element consists of a field name, a type, and a value.  Field names are strings.  Types include:

* string
* integer (32- or 64-bit)
* double (64-bit [[IEEE 754]] floating point number)
* date (integer number of milliseconds since the [[Unix epoch]])
* byte array (binary data)
* [[boolean datatype|boolean]] (<code>true</code> and <code>false</code>)
* [[Nullable type|null]]
* BSON object
* BSON array


BSON types are nominally a superset of [[JSON]] types (JSON does not have a date or a byte array type, for example<ref name="json">[http://www.json.org/ JSON Specification]</ref>), with one exception of not having a universal "number" type as JSON does.

==Efficiency==
Compared to JSON, BSON is designed to be efficient both in storage space and scan-speed.  Large elements in a BSON document are prefixed with a length field to facilitate scanning. In some cases, BSON will use more space than JSON due to the length prefixes and explicit array indices.<ref name="bsonspec"/>

== Example == 
A document such as {"hello":"world"} will be stored as: 

<source lang="c">

Bson:
  \x16\x00\x00\x00               // total document size
  \x02                           // 0x02 = type String
  hello\x00                      // field name
  \x06\x00\x00\x00world\x00      // field value (size of value, value, null terminator)
  \x00                           // 0x00 = type EOO ('end of object')
</source>

== See also ==
* [[JSON]]
* [[Smile (Data Interchange Format)|Smile]] (binary JSON)
* [[UBJSON]]
* [[Protocol Buffers]]
* [[Action Message Format]]
* [[Apache Thrift]]
* [[MessagePack]]
* [[Document-oriented database]]
** [[MongoDB]]
* [[Abstract Syntax Notation One]] (ASN.1)
* [[Wireless Binary XML]] (WBXML)
* [[Efficient XML Interchange]]
* [https://github.com/Sereal/Sereal Sereal]

==References==
{{Reflist}}

== External links ==
* [http://bsonspec.org/ BSON Specification]
* [http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/BSON BSON documentation on the MongoDB website]
* [http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/bsondump/ <tt>bsondump</tt> tool included with MongoDB]

[[Category:JSON]]
[[Category:Data serialization formats]]
[[Category:Document-oriented databases]]
